Case has deployed JA-SIG's [http://jasigch.princeton.edu:9000/display/CAS/Home Central Authentication Service], or CAS, to allow services to easily authenticate users.  The service entered production use on September 6, 2005.

== Using CAS ==
Users can log into CAS at https://login.case.edu/cas/.  Users can log out of CAS at https://login.case.edu/cas/logout.  If a user logs into CAS, he or she can be logged in to any application that participates in the service without again specifying his or her password for a period of up to 8 hours.

==Frequently Asked Questions==
===Why do I need to change my password before I can log in?===
CAS integrates with the university's password policy requirements.  If your password is expired and you attempt to log in, CAS will inform you of such.  You will be given a link to change your password.

===Why should I close my browser when I am done?===
When you log in to CAS, a cookie is stored in your browser that allows you to be automatically logged in to other sites.  This cookie is set to expire at the end of your browser's session.  So, when you close your browser, this cookie no longer exists and you can no longer be automatically be logged in to any more sites without specifying your password again.

It is possible to log out of CAS by visiting https://login.case.edu/cas/logout, however, this is not a secure form of logging out!  Some sites may still have you recorded as logged in through the use of cookies on those specific sites.  Closing your browser is the easiest way to guarantee that the next user of a computer will not be surfing the web under your identity.

===Authentication versus authorization===
When you access content, there are two phases you must go through to be allowed to access it: authentication and authorization.  Authentication is proving that you are who you say you are.  Authorization is determining whether a proven person is ''authoriz''ed to access something.  CAS handles authentication.  By logging in to CAS, CAS can authenticate your identity to participating services because you have authenticated yourself to CAS and CAS is trusted by the services that use it.  CAS does not handle authorization to individual services.  It is up to the individual services to determine if a user is allowed to access them.

===How do I obtain the user's name, status, etc===
CAS merely authenticates a user.  All the services know is that a username, ''abc123'' is accessing their site.  CAS does not provide information about users to accessed services.  However, all is not lost.  This information is contained within the university's [[LDAP]] server.  It is possible for end-services to query the LDAP server for information about these users to control and customize service behavior.  Some examples are displaying the user's name, filtering content based upon user's role within the university (student, staff, faculty, etc), grade level of student (freshmen, sophomore, junior, senior, etc).  To find information on how to do this, consult the [[LDAP|LDAP article]].

===Why should I change my existing service to use CAS===
The simple answer:  supplying your password to log in all the time is annoying.  Wouldn't it be convenient to just type your password once every eight hours and be done with it?  Besides, the fewer times users need the password, the more incentive there is for them to chose a better, more difficult to break, takes longer to type password.

===I have more questions, who do I contact===
If you have a question about CAS that isn't answered here, you have two options:
#Post a comment on [[{{ns:talk}}:{{PAGENAME}}]].
#Send an e-mail to [mailto:sso-admin@case.edu sso-admin@case.edu]

1) is preferred, as dialogue on this wiki can be referenced by others in your same shoes.

== Web Sites and Applications Using CAS ==
If you maintain a website that uses CAS, please add your site to the list below.  The sites are listen in chronological order (at least for now).

=== Deployed ===
* [[Main Page|Case Wiki]] (since September 6, 2005)
* [http://blog.case.edu Blogs@Case] (since September 6, 2005)
* [http://its-services.case.edu ITS Services] (since September 6, 2005)
* Shibboleth (since September 6, 2005)
* [http://usg.case.edu/funding/ USG Funding System] (since September 8, 2005)
* [http://bookswap.case.edu/acct/ Bookswap Account Status] (since September 9, 2005)
* [https://softwarecenter.case.edu Software Center] (Since September 29, 2005)
* [http://lists.case.edu Lists@Case] (since October of 2005)
* [http://photos.case.edu Case Screensaver Web Interface] (since October of 2005)
* [http://schedule.case.edu Schedule<small>.case.edu</small>] (since November 18, 2005)
* [http://studentaffairs.case.edu Student Affairs] and all related sites (since February 16, 2006)
* [http://blackboard.case.edu Blackboard] (since February 16, 2006)

=== In the Future ===
* [http://phonebook.case.edu Online Phonebook] (in testing)
* [http://mail.case.edu Web Mail] (in testing)
* [http://calendar.case.edu Oracle Calendar] (planned)
* [http://my.case.edu Case Portal] (could be a while)
* [http://www.case.edu/erp/hcm Peoplesoft] (directions at https://clearinghouse.ja-sig.org/wiki/display/CAS/CASifying+PeopleSoft)

=== Statistics ===
CAS has some benchmarks on the [[ITS Dashboard]]

{| 
| <ITSDashboard desc="Logins">188</ITSDashboard>
| <ITSDashboard desc="Application Tickets (services accessed)">185</ITSDashboard>
|}

== How CAS Works ==
=== Basic overview ===
When a user accesses a site that uses CAS, that site redirects the user to CAS (login.case.edu).  Once CAS has verified a user's identity, it forwards them back to the original site.  CAS attaches a unique ticket number to the URL of the protected service.  The protected service sees this ticket.  It sends this ticket to CAS.  CAS tells the protected service whether the ticket is good and if so, the [[Case ID]] that was used to obtain the ticket.  The protected service reacts accordingly, allowing access if the ticket is good.

=== Detailed overview ===
When you log into CAS at https://login.case.edu/cas/, a [[cookie]] is saved in your browser.  This cookie contains a unique ticket number that identifies you to the CAS server.  Every time you access https://login.case.edu after you are logged in, your browser automatically transmits this cookie to the web server.  CAS reads the cookie, looks up the ticket in its database, and identifies you.

CAS clients behave a little differently.  Say you access http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi.  When you load up that page, the page requires that you be logged into CAS to access it.  How does this work?  The page redirects you to 
 <nowiki>https://login.case.edu/cas/login?service=http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi</nowiki>
via an HTTP Location header.  Once CAS has verified you are logged in, it sends you back to the URL specified in the ''service'' parameter, in this case http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi.  There is, however, one small change.  CAS appends a service ticket to the URL, like 
 http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi?ticket=ST-3555-McPZ4NKfx6S0EhnCEkHc
The CAS client sees that the ''ticket'' parameter is defined and knows the user has just come from https://login.case.edu.  The CAS client then queries 
 <nowiki>https://login.case.edu/cas/serviceValidate?ticket=ST-3555-McPZ4NKfx6S0EhnCEkHc&service=http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi</nowiki>
The CAS server replies with an XML document that describes the service ticket.  Some of the values returned include whether the ticket is good and the username associated with the ticket.  Alternatively, the CAS client can query 
 <nowiki>https://login.case.edu/cas/validate?ticket=ST-3555-McPZ4NKfx6S0EhnCEkHc&service=http://blog.case.edu/mt/mt-cas.cgi</nowiki>
This will return a two line document.  The first line will say ''yes'' or ''no''.  The next line (only present if the first line is ''yes'') will be the username associated with the ticket.

In short, when a user requests access to an application that is CASified, that user gets whisked away to the CAS server.  Once they are logged in, the client is returned to the application with a unique service ticket.  This is a personalized ticket, good for only one use, and a short period of time that will gain you access into the application.  The CAS client verifies this ticket by talking to the CAS server and if everything checks out, it lets you in.

== CAS Implementation Best Practices ==

=== Use Caching ===
Many of the clients listed below use some form of caching.  Without caching, the CAS client will redirect the user to the CAS server for every request to obtain a new service ticket.  This places more load on not only the CAS server, but your web server as well.  Also, it takes a little longer for every page access to load because the user has to process 3 HTTP requests and your web server has to verify the ticket with the CAS server.  Assuming a negligible page load time under normal conditions, it takes about 5x longer to view a page.

To eliminate this bottleneck, you should store a cookie on the client's browser that tells your server that they are logged in.  This cookie should contain a ticket that you can map to a user.  Most CAS clients do this transparently.  Some clients, such as the PHP client, store this information in the user's $_SESSION.

=== Don't Log the User out of CAS ===
Some CAS clients have a logoff function that will actually log the user out of CAS.  This should be avoided!  Don't confuse local application logoff and CAS logoff.  If the user logs out of the local application, they are simply transitioning from registered user mode to anonymous user mode.  If a user logs out of CAS, they will be forced to supply their username and password again.  A simple way to check for logging out of CAS is to look for a request to https://login.case.edu/cas/logout.  If this URL is accessed by a client, they will be logged out of CAS.

== Configuring Applications to Use CAS ==
CAS is being used because it supports many clients for authentication.  A fairly complete list of clients is [http://jasigch.princeton.edu:9000/display/CAS/Clients available].  To use CAS for authentication, you need to know the following parameters:

*'''Host''': https://login.case.edu
*'''Context''': /cas/
*'''Login URL''':  https://login.case.edu/cas/login
*'''Logout URL''': https://login.case.edu/cas/logout
*'''Validate URL''': https://login.case.edu/cas/validate (CAS protocol version 1)
*'''Service Validate URL''': https://login.case.edu/cas/serviceValidate (CAS protocol version 2)
*'''Running Version''': 2.0
*'''CAS Protocol Versions Supported''': 1 and 2

If one the following clients does not work or does not apply to you, you may wish to create your own CAS client.  This is relatively simple because CAS operates over HTTP and the protocol is relatively simple.  Consulting the  [http://jasigch.princeton.edu:9000/display/CAS/CAS+2.0+Protocol+Specification CAS protocol] is a necessary step to properly design a client.

Some clients, such as the Apache modules, require that the certificate used by the login server to be verified.  For these, you need to obtain the public certificate for the [[Certificate Authority]] for https://login.case.edu.  The certificate authority is Entrust Server CA and its public certificate can be found below under the Apache 2 instructions.
=== Using Apache ===
A module, mod_cas, is available for Apache 1 and 2 to do CAS authentication.  A Perl auth module is also available as an alternative.

==== Apache 1 ====

==== Apache 2 ====
Although the version of mod_cas distributed as part of the CAS client package is usable, we recommend the use of our custom mod_cas module.  The advantages of our module are that configuration options for the module are not compiled into the module.  Also, we have modified the module to work with our modified mod_auth_ldap, which can return dynamic groups from LDAP.

The source code for our module can be found at https://its-services.case.edu/middleware/src/mod_cas_Apache2.tar.gz.  The development for this module occurs at http://opensource.case.edu/projects/CAS/.

Extract the contents of this archive anywhere in your filesystem.  cd to the '''apache2''' directory.  Edit the following values in '''Makefile''':

*top_srcdir
*top_builddir
*srcdir
*builddir
*VPATH


The values for ''top_srcdir'' and ''top_builddir'' are the path to Apache 2's source tree will most likely be identical.  An example value would be ''/usr/local/src/httpd-2.0.54''

The values for ''srcdir'', ''builddir'', and ''VPATH'' will most likely all be '''./'''

The module is compiled and installed by running

<source lang="bash">
make mod_cas.la
make install-modules
</source>

Alternatively, you can compile the module using [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/programs/apxs.html apxs].  Run the following to compile and copy the module to your Apache module directory:

<source lang="bash">
/path/to/apxs -i -c mod_cas.c ssl_client.c
</source>

Once the module is installed, you need to edit your Apache config file (usually ''httpd.conf'') and add the following:

<source lang="apache">
LoadModule cas_module usr/lib/apache2/mod_cas.so
CASLoginURL https://login.case.edu/cas/login
CASHost login.case.edu
CASValidate /cas/validate
CASTrustedCerts /path/to/entrust.crt
#CASDebug On

CASLocalCacheFile /path/to/cas/cache
CASLocalCacheSize 1000
CASLocalCacheTimeout 7200
CASLocalCacheInsecure Off
</source>

The '''CasTrustedCerts''' directive should point to a file containing the public certificate of the [[Certificate Authority]] for the CAS server.  It is recommended to create a file with the following contents:

<pre>
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----</pre>
and set this directive to point to that file.

You can use the ''CASDebug'' directive to allow extra debugging to the Apache log for testing purposes.  For ''CASLocalCacheFile'', create a blank file and set its permissions so the Apache user can write to this file.


To protect a specific directory to require CAS authentication, just use AuthType CAS.  For example:

<source lang="apache">
<Location "/cas-protected/">
    AuthType CAS
    AuthName "CAS"
    require valid-user
</Location>
</source>

By default, the CAS module will handle authentication and authorization.  If you have another module that you would like to process authorization, such as mod_auth_ldap, you need to tell mod_cas to defer to that module.  This is done by adding the directive '''CASAuthenticateOnly On''' to either the global httpd.conf file or in any <virtualhost>, <directory>, <location>, or .htaccess location.  You can set '''CASDebug On''' and view the Apache error log to verify everything is working as it should.

==== Apache 2.2 ====
The Apache 2.0 module is not compatible with Apache 2.2 due to Apache API changes.  [[User:Gregory.Szorc|Gregory Szorc]] will be working on writing a CAS module for Apache 2.2.  If you have an urgent need for this module, let him know.

==== AuthCAS mod_perl Module ====

=== IIS ===
* [http://jasigch.princeton.edu:9000/display/CAS/ISAPI+Filter CAS ISAPI filter for ISS]
* [http://gcx1.mygcx.org/cas/CCCIChanges.html CCCI CAS] alternative plugin for ISS/Apache (see [http://gcx1.mygcx.org/cas/web-server-agent/doc/CasAgentDoc.html documentation])

''These filters are not well supported, and may not even work at all. If you are successful in implementing any ISAPI filters, please add instructions for doing so here.''

=== ASP.NET ===

You can use [http://opensource.case.edu/projects/CAS/wiki/CASP CASP], a small C# class written by a programmer at Case for authenticating with CAS through ASP.NET.

=== PHP ===
There are two PHP libraries that can be used with CAS at Case.  The [[#Case CAS Module|Case CAS Module]] is very simple.  It requires PHP 5 to run.  [[#phpCAS|phpCAS]] supports all the bells and whistles of CAS, but requires a little more setup.

==== Case CAS Module ====
Information about this module is available at http://opensource.case.edu/projects/CaseClasses/.  The source code is available at http://opensource.case.edu/svn/CaseClasses/php/trunk/Case/Authn/CAS.php.

Sample usage:

<source lang="php">
require_once('Case/Authn/CAS.php');
$cas = new Case_Authn_CAS();
$cas->forceAuthentication();
$CaseID = $cas->getCaseID();
</source>

or

<source lang="php">
require_once('Case/Authn/CAS.php');
$cas = new Case_Authn_CAS();
$cas->checkAuthentication();

if ($cas->isLoggedIn()) {
  //the user is known to be logged in
  //do whatever you want with them
}
</source>

==== phpCAS ====

You can use [http://esup-phpcas.sourceforge.net/ phpCAS], a CAS PHP library to perform CAS authentication within your PHP applications.

To install phpCAS, download phpCAS, extract the contents of the archive, and copy ''source/CAS'' to somewhere in PHP's ''include_path''.  In your PHP application, use the following to set up your CAS client:

<source lang="php">
require_once('CAS/CAS.php');

phpCAS::client(CAS_VERSION_2_0,'login.case.edu',443,'/cas');
</source>

The creation of the phpCAS client automatically calls session_start unless the 5th parameter of the function is ''false''.  If your session is already started, this will issue a PHP warning.

To force the user to be logged in, execute the following statement:

<source lang="php">
phpCAS::forceAuthentication();
</source>

If you need to obtain the person's network ID, use:

<source lang="php">
$NetID = phpCAS::getUser();
</source>

More documentation is availabe at the library's web site.

'''Do not use ''phpCAS::logout()'' in your script, as it will log the user out of CAS'''.  Instead, you can perform a local logout by manipulating $_SESSION variables or cookies.

==== Example PHP Script ====
<source lang="php">
<?php

//initialize the CAS library
require_once('CAS/CAS.php');
phpCAS::client(CAS_VERSION_2_0, 'login.case.edu', 443, '/cas');

//if the user is requesting to be logged in
if (isset($_REQUEST['login'])) {
   phpCAS::forceAuthentication();
   //the user is known to be logged in to CAS at this point
   $_SESSION['loggedInLocally'] = true;  //set a local variable telling the program we are logged in
   $_SESSION['username'] = phpCAS::getUser();  //this stores their network user id
}

//if we want to log out of the program
if (isset($_REQUEST['logout'])) {
   $_SESSION['loggedInLocally'] = false;
   unset($_SESSION['username']);
}

if (isset($_SESSION['loggedinLocally']) && $_SESSION['loggedInLocally']===true) {
   echo "You are logged in to the application";
} else {
   echo "You are not logged in to the application.  Log in by specifying the 'login' log parameter to this script.";
}

?>
</source>

=== Perl ===
See http://sourcesup.cru.fr/perlcas/

=== Java ===
See http://jasigch.princeton.edu:9000/display/CAS/Java+Client

=== Ruby / Ruby on Rails ===
See http://www.ja-sig.org/wiki/display/CAS/Ruby+on+Rails+CAS+Client

=== ColdFusion ===

See http://www.ja-sig.org/wiki/display/CAS/ColdFusion+client+script

=== Zope ===
See http://www.zope.org/Members/mrlex/ACUF

=== VBScript ===
[[Office of Undergraduate Admission|Undergraduate Admission]]'s own [[User:Jonathan.Wehner|Jonathan Wehner]] has created a skeleton framework for using CAS in VBScript.  See http://opensource.case.edu/projects/CAS/wiki/VBScript.

[[Category:ITS Services]]
